---
CIP: 20
Title: Transaction message/comment metadata
Authors: Martin Lang <martin@martinlang.at>, Ola Ahlman <ola@ahlnet.nu>, Andrew Westberg <andrewwestberg@gmail.com>
Comments-URI: no comments yet
Status: Draft
Type: Informational
Created: 2021-06-13
License: CC-BY-4.0
---

# Abstract

This proposal describes a basic JSON schema to add messages/comments/memos as transaction metadata by using the metadatum label **674**.
Adding informational text, invoice-numbers or similar to a transaction.

# Motivation

We have the utilities on the Blockchain now since the introduction of the "Allegra-Era". A simple consens about adding messages, comments or memos to transactions is still missing.
So the CIP authors came together to form a first implementation of this. It is straight and simple, additional keys and content can be added later.
The IOG main wallet `daedalus` can now also directly show attached metadata information in the transaction details. This is the missing link to bring it together.

Current Tools/Sites/Explorers that have implemented it already or have plans to implement it:
* [CNTools](https://cardano-community.github.io/guild-operators/#/Scripts/cntools)
* [JorManager](https://bitbucket.org/muamw10/jormanager/)
* [StakePoolOperator Scripts](https://github.com/gitmachtl/scripts)
* [Cardanoscan.io](https://cardanoscan.io)
* [AdaStat.net](https://adastat.net)

# Specification

The specification for the individual strings follow the general design specification for JSON metadata already implemented and in operation on the cardano blockchain.
The used metadatum label is **674** this number was choosen, because it is the T9 encoding of the string "msg".
The message(s) content has the key **msg** and consists of an array of **message-strings**. 
The number of theses message-strings must be at least one for a single message, more for multiple messages/lines. Theses message-strings must be at most 64 bytes when UTF-8 encoded.

Example for a single message/comment/memo:
``` json
{ 
  "674":
         { "msg": [ 
                    "this is a comment for the transaction xyz, thank you very much!"
                  ]
         }
}
```

Example for multiple message/comment/memo:
``` json
{ 
  "674":
         { "msg": [ 
                    "Invoice-No: 1234567890",
                    "P.S.: i will shop again at your store :-)"
                  ]
         }
}
```

# Rationale

This design is simple, so many tools on the cardano blockchain can implement it easily. The array type was choosen to have consistency, no need to switch between a string or
an array format, or testing against a string or array format. Updates in the future are possible, like adding a versioning key `"ver":`, making additional key entries, making subarrays in the message-strings, etc.

# Copyright

This CIP is licensed under [CC-BY-4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode)
